# MIT-6.824

## Lab 1 MapReduce

In this lab you'll build a MapReduce system. You'll implement a worker process that calls application Map and Reduce functions and handles reading and writing files, and a coordinator process that hands out tasks to workers and copes with failed workers. You'll be building something similar to the [MapReduce paper](https://static.googleusercontent.com/media/research.google.com/zh-CN//archive/mapreduce-osdi04.pdf).

## Lab 2: Raft

In this lab you'll implement Raft as a Go object type with associated methods, meant to be used as a module in a larger service. A set of Raft instances talk to each other with RPC to maintain replicated logs. Your Raft interface will support an indefinite sequence of numbered commands, also called log entries. The entries are numbered with index numbers. The log entry with a given index will eventually be committed. At that point, your Raft should send the log entry to the larger service for it to execute.

A replicated service achieves fault tolerance by storing complete copies of its state (i.e., data) on multiple replica servers. Replication allows the service to continue operating even if some of its servers experience failures (crashes or a broken or flaky network). The challenge is that failures may cause the replicas to hold differing copies of the data.

Raft organizes client requests into a sequence, called the log, and ensures that all the replica servers see the same log. Each replica executes client requests in log order, applying them to its local copy of the service's state. Since all the live replicas see the same log contents, they all execute the same requests in the same order, and thus continue to have identical service state. If a server fails but later recovers, Raft takes care of bringing its log up to date. Raft will continue to operate as long as at least a majority of the servers are alive and can talk to each other. If there is no such majority, Raft will make no progress, but will pick up where it left off as soon as a majority can communicate again.
## Lab 3: Fault-tolerant Key/Value Service
In this lab you will build a fault-tolerant key/value storage service using your Raft library from Lab 2. Your key/value service will be a replicated state machine, consisting of several key/value servers that use Raft for replication. Your key/value service should continue to process client requests as long as a majority of the servers are alive and can communicate, in spite of other failures or network partitions. After Lab 3, you will have implemented all parts (Clerk, Service, and Raft) [shown in the diagram of Raft interactions](http://nil.csail.mit.edu/6.824/2022/notes/raft_diagram.pdf).

Clients can send three different RPCs to the key/value service: Put(key, value), Append(key, arg), and Get(key). The service maintains a simple database of key/value pairs. Keys and values are strings. Put(key, value) replaces the value for a particular key in the database, Append(key, arg) appends arg to key's value, and Get(key) fetches the current value for the key. A Get for a non-existent key should return an empty string. An Append to a non-existent key should act like Put. Each client talks to the service through a Clerk with Put/Append/Get methods. A Clerk manages RPC interactions with the servers.
## Lab 4: Sharded Key/Value Service
In this lab you'll build a key/value storage system that "shards," or partitions, the keys over a set of replica groups. A shard is a subset of the key/value pairs; for example, all the keys starting with "a" might be one shard, all the keys starting with "b" another, etc. The reason for sharding is performance. Each replica group handles puts and gets for just a few of the shards, and the groups operate in parallel; thus total system throughput (puts and gets per unit time) increases in proportion to the number of groups.

Your sharded key/value store will have two main components. First, a set of replica groups. Each replica group is responsible for a subset of the shards. A replica consists of a handful of servers that use Raft to replicate the group's shards. The second component is the "shard controller". The shard controller decides which replica group should serve each shard; this information is called the configuration. The configuration changes over time. Clients consult the shard controller in order to find the replica group for a key, and replica groups consult the controller in order to find out what shards to serve. There is a single shard controller for the whole system, implemented as a fault-tolerant service using Raft.
